-: Welcome back.
In this lecture, we are going to understand
about one more Kubernetes concept, ReplicaSets.
So, ReplicaSets help us in achieving high availability
and then reliability for our applications
hosted on Kubernetes.
In addition to that, it helps us to seamlessly
scale our applications.
And, in combination with services and ReplicaSets,
we'll also be able to achieve effective
load balancing in Kubernetes.
Finally, labels and selectors.
So using labels and selectors,
we'll be able to tie all the ReplicaSets,
services, and then pods together.
With that said, a ReplicaSet's purpose
is to maintain a stable set of replica pods
running at any given point of time.
So, if our application crashes and any pod dies.
Example if you see here, in a worker node,
we have two pods and then one pod got died.
So if that is the case,
ReplicaSet will recreate the pod immediately
to ensure the configured number of pods
running at any given point of time.
So we configure the number of replicas in our ReplicaSet.
So if you say that always it need to have two replicas,
then, ReplicaSet will ensure that it is running
with two parts at any point of time.
So, in this way, reliability and then high availability
for all applications are achieved.
The next thing is load balancing.
So to avoid overloading of traffic to single pod,
we can use load balancing.
So, Kubernetes provides pod load balancing
out of the box using services for the pods,
which are part of the ReplicaSets.
So, labels and selectors are the key items
which ties all these things together.
pods, ReplicaSets and services.
So we will know in detail about these labels and selectors
when we are writing the YAML manifest
in our upcoming lectures.
So if you consider
a Kubernetes cluster with two worker nodes,
if you see the ReplicaSet is spanned across two worker nodes
and we have two pods in one worker node
and then two pods in another worker node.
And mostly to access the applications hosted on these pods
and then unload the effect to load balancing,
so we will have the services in middle.
So services will distribute the traffic
to this respective ReplicaSet
and the pods present inside that.
So with that said, in combination with ReplicaSet
and services, we can achieve effective load balancing
in Kubernetes.
And the next thing is scaling.
So when load becomes too much
for our number of existing pods,
Kubernetes enables us to easily scale up our applications,
adding additional pods as needed.
So this is going to be seamless and super quick.
So let's consider a Kubernetes cluster with two worker nodes
and you have one pod in each one.
And then a services load balancing the traffic to them.
And all of a sudden, you have a spike in your traffic.
If that is the case, to scale,
you have multiple options in Kubernetes.
First thing is go ahead and then update your ReplicaSets,
number of replicas and decide number,
how much you want, and then apply that.
Or you can use kubectl scale to do that.
Or you can even enable the HorizontalPodAutoscaler
to auto scale the pods to achieve
or to support the amount of traffic spike
at that point of time.
Now, let's go ahead and then implement
the Kubernetes ReplicaSet demo.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.